---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-01-06T15:37:20.467Z'
dateModified: '2016-01-06T15:36:20.680Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-01-06-81488de9-2f85-42b5-baf1-f14941d9eefb.md
published: true
url: 81488de9-2f85-42b5-baf1-f14941d9eefb/index.html
_type: Article

---
Typically there is only one flavour of emotion accepted at work; the positive kind. So much so that there are articles like null

that tell you to 'Try smiling more at work even when you are stressed out' and null

that states '

Force a confident smile, and the confidence will soon become a reality.

'

(Unless of course you are a woman, in which case it

'

s prudent to null

.)

Whilst there is much to be said about null

and null

where by our genuine emotions change over time to reflect the emotions we fake or the predominant emotion of culture we are inhabiting, there are also benefits to creating a culture where our teams feel that that can express authentic emotions.

We have all experienced a culture that seems to have two faces - the smiling and positive face that acts as a veneer for 

an undercurrent of complaint, dissatisfaction and a general feeling of 'meh'. This disconnect is a hallmark of disengagement. And it is incredibly pervasive when you consider that 50% of american employees are disengaged according to null

.

If you are unclear as to what disengagement is, one nameless Fortune 500 executive described his experience of the state as null

You can bet that the smile is not the only emotional fakery that executive engages in. It is likely that he does not express his dissatisfaction to his boss or board. And here is where faking becomes damaging. null

found that it was null

for an employee and supervisor to be frank around any difficulty in their working relationship. 

They found that when an employee and their boss viewed the relationship the same way, even if it was lousy, the employee performed better. 

Additionally, studies have shown that 39% of bottom line productivity is directly attributable to an employee's level of fulfilment AND

the null

. If we collectively create cultures and envorments where null

positive emotions are shared even if they are fake, we are entrusting 39% of our bottom line productivity to a relationship characterised by at the very best, lies of omission.

We have collectively bought into the idea that good leaders are always positive. Like silos and hierarchies these practices are less relevant in our current and future businesses. Dr Brene Brown and Dr Pets Fuda are amongst the experts sharing the importance of vulnerability in leaders. And even West Point, arguably the preeminent leadership academy in America has co-produced a study that concluded that a combination of positive and so-called dark emotions make for the best leaders.

In short, its not our fake smiles and fist pumps that inspire, engage and fulfil, but our authenticity and trust.